---
title: "Oh My Cron"
date: 2023-07-18T15:22:25-05:00
draft: true
slug: "oh-my-cron"
---

Oh boy. I feel like I may never truly understand how cron works compared to other task scheduling applications. Today I went through a whole mess of steps to try and get a job scheduled to automatically generate my [github contributions chart](/data).

## What happened?

So, I was able to use the lovely [githubchart](https://github.com/akerl/githubchart) gem to generate my githubchart SVG with no issues at all. It was so simple.

```
> gem install githubchart
> githubchart -u onlymattjohnson ./github.svg
```

Since this was so easy I thought just dropping that in `cron` to run every 15 minutes or so would be straightforward. I get to keep hugo generating my static site and then in the background this script can just refresh the image. 

⛔ I was wrong.

I added the commands I needed to the an entry in `crontab -e` and then waited to see the image render. It did not. I checked my logs and I see this message (I removed some of the folder names because you don't need to know all that)

```
/usr/lib/ruby/2.7.0/rubygems.rb:275:in `find_spec_for_exe': can't find gem githubchart (>= 0.a) with executable githubchart (Gem::GemNotFoundException)
        from /usr/lib/ruby/2.7.0/rubygems.rb:294:in `activate_bin_path'
        from /home/XXXXXXXXX/gems/bin/githubchart:23:in `<main>'
```

## Can this be fixed?

Every suggestion google through back at me involved installing [RVM](https://rvm.io/), which to be fair I should have already done. From there, I should let RVM setup my cron headers.

```
> rvm cron setup
```

So, I installed RVM, which was fast. Then, I installed ruby through RVM, which did not go so fast. Finally, I reinstalled `githubchart` with the new ruby being managed by RVM. 

Now, I entered the magic command `rvm cron setup`, verified that my crontab now had the appropriate headers. I crossed my fingers 🤞 and... IT WORKED 🎉

So, I guess if you want to use ruby gems and cron, make sure to use RVM.

